Lesson 1 Project:

Objective:

This simple project is designed to remind you how to create and run a program,
and to show how to submit homework projects. Go through the following steps,
referring to the course notes if you get stuck.

Create a new file.
Enter the four lines of code shown in the editor window below:
Save the file (we recommend creating and using a folder for this
and all of your homework separate from your /python1 folder with a
recognizable name like /python1homework) as one_statement.py.
Run it to make sure it works properly.

Code to type into your Python source file:

"Simple one-statement module with docstring."
print("""This is a very simple program
that, when run, will verify I can create,
save, and run programs in CodeRunner.""")

When you finish, hand in your one_statement.py file by finding
it in the folders at left below and dragging it to the Drop
Here folder at right. Then, click Hand In (at the bottom right
of the screen--you may need to scroll down to find it!) to
submit it to the instructor.



Here are the files you handed in:
Python1/Python1_Homework/one_statement.py

Overall Comments:

Hi David, This is excellent news. If you have your own
environment, and you're comfortable working with it, feel free
to go ahead and use it. We provide the CodeRunner environment
to ensure that the only requirement for the classes access to
a browser. But as long as you have access to a system with
Python 3 (optimally, Python 3.4) you can work out the
assignments there and simply cut/paste completed assignments
into CodeRunner. Congratulations on your first Python program!
It works as advertised while giving you practice with two very
important features of the language - the docstring and a
verbose, descriptive way to communicate what's going on with
your program. -Pat


QUIZ 1:
Q1: Question #1:
What escape sequence represents a newline in a string literal?

Answer #1:
\n

Q2: Question #2:

What operator is used to concatenate strings?


Answer #2:
"str1" + "str2"

Q3: Question #3:
In which CodeRunner panel do you find the files for your project?

Answer #3:
File Browser on far left

Q4: Question #4:
What single character is used to continue a statement on to the next line?

Answer #4:
words \
more words


Q5: Question #5:
What function do you use to send output to the screen?

Answer #5:
print


Overall Comments (to Quiz 1):

Hi David, Welcome to Python. You're off to a great start with a perfect quiz.
Looking forward ... You are about to embark on a great journey at the end of
which you will have a confident mastery of Python and its application to many
types of real-world problems. Your mastery will come through personal
accomplishment and, more importantly for your growth in the topic, challenges
that may seem - in the moment - daunting. By choosing to learn Python in this
class, you have assured that you will not be alone. I'm here to serve as your
guide and mentor at each step, available to provide clarification, tips, and
individualized dialogue - all available at your request. I can't ensure your
success - only you can. However, as long as you are in the game, I'm at your
side. Now, let's get to some "nuts and bolts": - Please don't feel that you
need to pass every assignment on the first attempt. If you do, great! However,
unsuccessful attempts provide real learning - and that's why you're here. -
You can contact me by clicking the "Messages" tab on the top of the CodeRunner
application. My goal is to respond within two business days, though I'll try
to reply much sooner. - The assignments are designed to flex specific muscles
and build on one another. You may be tempted to get fancy early-on, but there
will be time for that later. Do feel free to experiment and otherwise explore
the topics presented. - Some of the assignments involve Python code files that
you'll hand in. Please choose file names that reflect the 'code cycle'. For
instance, your first attempt might be called 'myCode.attempt1.py' and your
second would be 'myCode.attempt2.py'. This will maintain a little version
control and let us both compare results. Once you've turned in an assignment,
please don't change the code or move the file - otherwise I won't know what
you intended to turn in. Above all, try to savor the experience - there's the
real possibility that you'll have a lot of fun as you achieve your learning
goals. Good Luck! See you on-line. -Pat



GRADE: Great


QUIZ 2
Q1: Question #1:

What is wrong with the following code?

print ("This is a very fun class
and I am learning about Python!")



Answer #1:
missing "\" before newline. That will cause a syntax error.

I'm not catching the second thing. If I plug in the escaped newline it runs. I
have Python 2.7 here on my home box. Let me try on Python 3; maybe it's a
version 3 thing...

Okay, I just typed it into the version 3 of idle with just the escaped
newline, and it seems to have run okay. So I'm missing the second mistake in
the code above. :-(

Comments:
There's only one mistake, but it can be rectified in may ways. BTW, I'd highly
recommend using Python 3.x for this course - it coexists happily with Python
2.x, even in the same box.

Q2: Question #2:
What four delimiters can be used when writing string literals? Note:
Delimiters show where strings begin and end. They are the same on both ends of
the string.

Answer #2:
Examples:
print ("""yada yada""")
print('''yeeee haw!''')
print("wooba dooba")
print('Frankly Scarlett, ...')

Comments:
Perfect.

Q3: Question #3:
What string does the interactive Python interpreter use as a prompt?

Answer #3:
>>>

Comments:


Overall Comments:

Thanks for taking a second whack at it, David. Lookn' good. -Pat


